#summary Links to papers, related pages and other projects

=== Other Particle Systems ===

http://particlesystems.org
    An open source particle engine and API written in C++. A strong source of ideas and inspiration. Lepton [Domain]s in particular are inspired by this project.

[http://flintparticles.org/ Flint Particle System]
  Open source Actionscript particle system. It's approach to a modular api is similar to Lepton's. Has some very cool features.

[http://jops.softmed.org/ Java Open Particle System]
  An open source particle engine for Java. Has a nice GUI for creating particle effect.s

http://www.wondertouch.com/
  A very nice looking commercial particle engine. Nice examples to draw inspiration from.

http://www.fxpression.com/
  Open source particle plug-in for Ogre3D

[http://www.tml.tkk.fi/~tilmonen/vee/home.html VEE -- Visual Effects Engine]
  "2nd order" Open source particle effects engine with Python support

=== Papers and Pages ===

[http://freespace.virgin.net/hugo.elias/models/m_main.htm Hugo Elias' Models page]
  Basic, practical examples of particles and simulating various real-life materials such as strings and cloth.

[http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20000623/vanderburg_01.htm Building an advanced particle system]
  Gamasutra article with some ideas, not sure how "advanced" they are, but they are good basics.

[http://www.gamasutra.com/view/feature/3680/a_more_accurate_volumetric_.php More accurate volumetric particle renderering]
  Talks about solving boundary artifacts when volume filling particles (e.g., smoke) contact solid surfaces in 3D scenes. Something to consider for future Lepton functionality.

[http://ati.amd.com/developer/techreports/2004/GH2004/Kipfer-UberFlow%20A%20GPU-Based%20Particle%20Engine(GH04)-Slides.pdf GPU-based particle system]
  Particle system implemented using shaders. Contains some valuable ideas and datastructures for any particle system, however.

[http://2ld.de/gdc2007/EverythingAboutParticleEffectsSlides.pdf Particle effects presentation]

[http://www.gamasutra.com/features/20040728/latta_01.shtml Building a million-particle system] 
  Some ideas on scaling up particle effects, mostly involving pushing the work off to the GPU.

[http://wwwcg.in.tum.de/Research/data/Publications/tvcg05.pdf A Particle System for Interactive Visualization of 3D Flows]
  Can simulate a flow involving millions of particles at interactive rates on the GPU

=== Coding Resources ===

[http://www.cse.yorku.ca/~oz/marsaglia-rng.html Fast random-number generators]
[http://www.jstatsoft.org/v05/i08/supp/1 Ziggurat method for generating normally distributed random numbers] 
  The basis for the fast random number generators used by lepton.
  

[http://cowboyprogramming.com/2007/01/05/multithreading-particle-sytems/ Multi-threading particle systems]
  Leveraging parallel processing capabilities of modern PCs for better particle system performance.

[http://developer.apple.com/graphicsimaging/opengl/optimizingdata.html Optimizing OpenGL throughput on Mac OS X]

[http://www.flipcode.com/documents/matrfaq.html Matrix and Quaternion FAQ]
  Put this in your pipe and smoke it.

[http://palladion.com/home/tseaver/obzervationz/2008/unit_testing_notes-20080724 Using unittest effectively]
  A nice overview of some non-obvious tips for writing effective unittests, by my old friend and former colleague, Tres Seaver.